I would now like to turn the conference over to our host, Mr. Brian Lamb.
Please go ahead, sir.
Thank you.
Hi, everybody.
How are you doing?
Hi, Brian.
Wonderful.
Thanks for joining me today.
I know we have one of our all-time Best Book Notes guests on the line, Nick Bassman.
Thank you, Nick.
Thank you, Brian.
How are you today?
That's quite a compliment, really.
It was fun.
I don't need to get into a speech-making thing here.
You all, obviously, have some interest, so I'll just throw it open to anybody who wants to ask a question on this process.
We are probably at week...
six or seven uh of this book being in the marketplace it's in its second printing it's been a total of about uh i think about 38 or 9 000 books printed it seems to be selling relatively well although i don't have any figures at this point and uh i've been out and around the country uh on a book tour and have enjoyed it uh and this you know we've almost had a non-stop
a book tour going on for about two years.
So with that as a premise, which is very substantive, I'll just throw it open to anybody that might have a question.
This is Nick.
Interested, Brian, in that these are interviews with biographers, but you chose to open the book with a little statement from Bob Loomis at Random House.
I wonder if you could give us some idea of how you came to that decision.
Sure.
For those of you who don't know Bob Loomis, and I picked this up over the years of interviewing, he is one of the favorite editors of any of these book companies.
And we called him up one day on our book TV side of things and asked him if he would sit for an interview a couple of years ago.
And we were very surprised that he said yes.
And when I got there, I learned that he said it was the first time he'd ever been interviewed on television.
And it was so good and such insight into the book business and the role the editor plays, all that, that we just decided to create a little essay and put it out front because he's been in this business for over 40 years.
And I think otherwise it just speaks for itself.
Oh, that's wonderful.
Mr. Lamb, this is Ed Breen at the Journal Gazette in Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Hi, Ed.
I presume you are pleased.
I am wondering, are you surprised by the success of your book ventures?
You know, Ed, it's hard to, you know, I'm pleased that anybody cares.
That sounds shallow, but I mean, we don't measure anything with real numbers.
Certainly we don't have the numbers of people who watch the network.
Doing the book has allowed me to see firsthand the kind of people that watch.
And when I go to a bookstore,
Traditionally, I'm getting 125 to 300, 400 people, depending on where it is.
And so it's a great way to find out what people look like and what they know and what they care about because I listen to their questions.
I'm not sure this would work in a commercial format.
The beauty of what we do is that it's not measured by a Nielsen rating.
So if we have a bad weekend, it doesn't matter.
And we're allowed to do all kinds of things and experiment.
I'm not surprised that people are interested in books, and I'm sure you're not either.
We're not totally happy yet with what we've been able to do with book TV.
We've only been doing this for a little over half a year.
But I think as time goes by, we'll get technically better, and we'll get a better sense of what people enjoy.
But for this network, the connection to the book has enhanced the value of everything we're doing, so we're happy with that.
So there's a symbiotic relationship between the network and the book.
Yeah, this town relies a lot on the book, and it relies a lot on books that don't sell very well on a national basis.
I mean, you can go back over the history.
I've been here 33 years, and every year there are several books that hit the marketplace that have a major impact on the policy community or the political community.
And as you know, they're more and more being used as vehicles for politicians to get attention.
Some of them not very successfully, frankly, but it's just an important part of the whole mix of information in Washington.
Nick Basman is here again.
Brian, you mentioned about 38,000 copies of this book notes in print.
How well did the first one do?
Could you give us some figures on that one?
The first hardback, which was out a couple years ago, it sold...
Let's see if I can remember.
It sold, it had seven printings, and in the end it sold something like 35,000 copies.
That's spectacular for such a, I hesitate to say arcane, but this is a very limited, decidedly limited kind of appeal.
Well, you know how well you did with Jen.
That was a real surprise to everybody.
Yeah.
I've seen a number of interviews with you, Brian, where you don't like to pick any favorites of the authors that you've had on.
But I wonder, are you ever surprised...
by what you learn?
I mean, you read your books, everybody knows how well informed you are when you go into these interviews, but are you still ever surprised by what you learn in these interviews?
There's usually about 10 minutes of the hour interview where I'm getting new material.
You know, the rest of it comes out of the books and I'm not surprised.
And frankly, that 10 minutes is worth waiting for.
And I try to make it 10 minutes that will add to anybody's knowledge about the individual and why they wrote
where they come from and what was influencing their lives before they got into this business.
And I'm almost never surprised by what they tell me about the book itself.
But, you know, if I didn't learn something from it, I suspect it wouldn't be nearly as much fun as it is, although having to read these books in themselves or in itself is worth it because you learn so much.
I'm going to re-ask that question in a Snyder form.
Have there been occasions when you get 10, 15 minutes into that hour and you think, how the hell am I going to make it through this hour?
It happens, but it's rare.
Okay.
It's rare.
Sometimes what happens is at the end of the interview, you're looking at that clock saying, I've got 12 minutes left.
I'm not really sure I've got 12-month discussion.
You know, that happens.
But, you know, frankly, I'd say 75% of the time without fail, it goes very quickly, and it's fun, and it's interesting.
And the other 25%, you know, one of the things that you never factor in, I've never said this before, but one of the things you never factor in to a show is how do I feel?
I mean, when I'm sitting there, I may have had a bad day.
I may have 16 other things on my mind.
And sometimes that affects what I'm thinking.
I never let the audience know that.
So when I look back on some of these interviews and we rerun them four, five, six years later, I look back and I have no idea what I felt like back then because you forget it.
But it's just interesting to see the perspective because I'm seeing it the same way the audience is seeing it.
And what I always find is really surprising is how much I learned the second time around when I hear an interview.
It's like going back and reading stuff you wrote 10 years ago and you think, my God, I couldn't have done that.
Yeah, well, in my case, you know, some of the way I used to write, Brian, I don't have to see it very often.
I want to shift gears and just ask a quick question about your photography.
You obviously enjoy making the photographs of writers yourself.
I presume you made a conscious decision not to drag a photographer along with you.
Tell me why.
Tell me why you enjoy that process.
I've always taken pictures as an amateur, and I've never done anything with it other than, you know, when I start out in this town as a print reporter,
back in about 1974 or five for four years i was a trade press reporter and the only way i could get photographs because we didn't have any money at the company was to take my own and it made such a big difference so i started taking uh photos black and white with a pentax a little 35 millimeter pentax not the tiny ones but a you know single reflex
And it worked, and it made a big difference in the stuff.
And then I started taking color shots for the cover of this magazine.
It was called Cable Vision Magazine.
And then what happened, and this is true exactly this way, is that we hired, when we started out to do our first book, and we started to hire some freelance photographers, and we got the stuff back.
uh, from the road and it was costing us $800 a day.
And I took a look and I said, this stuff stinks.
I mean, we're paying this guy $800 a day to run around and not get us what we want.
And I wanted color stuff and we weren't getting very good color stuff.
So I said, hell, I'm going to go do this.
So I literally, I just, it was just one of those things.
And I, I, I just got on the road and, and you know, so many of them are taken in and around New York city because so many writers live up there.
But, um,
The first time, we had a hard time getting the publishing company to go for the colored photos.
And in our negotiations on the second one, we said, look, it's a part of the deal, and they went along with it without question.
And I figured that in the second book, I probably took 1,500 photos to get 32.
But it's a huge kick for me.
to go to where they are.
I mean, Nick and I, the last time around, met up in Boston at an old bomb pan and had a cup of coffee, and I took some pictures of him sitting there.
It's just, I've got time.
When I went on this book tour, I've just taken a photo of every audience that I've seen and every interview that I've had over the last two years, and I just got them for the fun of it in a scrapbook, not for any particular reason.
And it just helps to, you know, I don't know why.
It's fun.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And without sounding pandering, you've got kind of a marvelous, candid quality to the pictures that you're getting.
I like them.
Well, thanks, but it's, you know, and they're real cheap.
I mean, it's a $69 Olympus camera that I bought up in New York.
And it works.
And you just take a lot of... That's all you want from a camera.
That's all you... Yeah, that's all you need.
And you save yourself the reproduction cost, too.
I mean, which is wonderful, too, isn't it?
Well, the whole thing costs us a tremendous amount less than, you know, it would have if we'd had a freelance photographer.
We don't... I mean, we're not... This place is in trouble financially.
It just grates me when I look at the kind of money you have to spend in order to get...
something that I could have done.
I mean, I don't consider myself a professional, but boy, what a hoot it is, though, to go to people's places where they write and all that stuff.
Mr. Lamb.
Yes.
Tony Biffle down in Biloxi, Mississippi.
Hi.
How are you doing, sir?
I'd like to have a couple of follow-ups and then one of my own.
You said that the first book went through seven printings and had about 35,000 hardcover sales.
Right.
You're now in just your second and already approaching 40,000 on the second book.
So the publishers apparently thought that this one had a market and bumped up the first run a little bit, I take it.
I gather we didn't talk to them about that.
And, you know, I think that they just decided if it sold that many the first time that they figured they'd better come out of the box this time around.
Because everybody's going to want them to accept.
I think Brian's being modest.
This is usually very strong support from the booksellers, too, the orders that they must have been getting from bookstores around the country predicated on the success.
I don't know.
You know, as you well know, we don't do this for money here, so...
It feels good that anybody buys your stuff, but it also gives us a chance to talk about what we do.
Another follow-up.
You said that you were not totally happy with book TV the way it is right now.
Is there anything specific that you want to do or any particular place you want to take it?
Well, what I meant by that, I'm very happy with what Connie Brode has done with it, and she's a really terrific book.
hard-working producer.
None of us feel that we've gotten to where we want to get, and I can't explain what that is.
I mean, we're still listening to folks' feedback to us.
We want to be a little bit more timely on some things.
We want to improve our production values.
We're hiring a lot of outside crews that we don't have any control over, and sometimes the video isn't shot the way we want it shot.
Going back to those photos you were talking about.
Yeah, well, that's true.
You know, I mean, we have people here
who are terrific that work for us here.
I mean, they just have learned how to do it our way.
And when you call somebody in some community outside of here and say, here's what we want, you really are playing, you know, you're taking potluck on the deal.
If I could ask this, and I know you joke about this.
In fact, I was disappointed on your 10th anniversary show you didn't replay that parody.
Isn't that great?
From the fifth year, but I got it on tape, so... And I...
I dig it out, you know, every once in a while.
But talking about the so-called dumb questions, I was really surprised in live stories that the one contribution from Shelby Foote wasn't about a Civil War character, but was about Marcel Proust, which, as I remember from the original interview, again, you've left your questions out, but I'm sure the original question was, who is Marcel Proust, right?
And it turned into a wonderful, short, but nice live story.
Is that what makes up for some of the duller moments in interviews is asking those simple, direct declarative questions and getting wonderful answers like that?
Well, you've got to really, I mean, I don't want to overdo this, but it is a fact.
I mean, this is unfortunate.
This is just my early days in learning process.
I just didn't learn as much as I should have.
When he started talking about Marcel Proust in the interview, and I've done two or three interviews with Shelby Foot in addition to the book notes, he was about the third person that mentioned Marcel Proust.
I had no idea who in the heck he was.
I just heard his name over the years.
And one of the fun things of putting this in this book has nothing to do with anything important.
I subsequently, and I've gotten to know Shelby a little bit, and I've been to Memphis and his home and things like that because of taking the pictures.
uh just for the fun of it i was over when we were doing our toqueville series in paris and i went out to the pere lachey's cemetery where marcel proust is buried and i had one of our folks that was with me i said i want you to take a picture of me sitting on the grave so i i then shipped that photo i was i want i kind of wanted to put it in the book but i didn't want to
You know, it was just too cute.
So I shipped it off to Shelby and told him that his influence was so great on me.
Now I was sitting on Marcel Cruz's grave site.
It's not serious, but I now know a little bit on who he is.
And I read a little bio on him and looked a little bit at his seven-volume novel.
But that's about as far as I'll go with it.
But again, you had just assumed that you or your audience knew who we were talking about.
You wouldn't have asked that question and wouldn't have gotten that live story out of it.
I agree.
And sometimes, I must admit, it is a little aggravating when you ask who is Abraham Lincoln.
But, you know, you never know what's going to come out of that.
And the reason you do is not just, and it's not usually for me, by the way, cute that I know the answer and I want to play dumb.
Sometimes I want to know what that person thinks Abraham, who that person thinks Abraham Lincoln was.
And you get a very different, you know, if you ask 14 people who Abraham Lincoln was, I guarantee you'd get 14 different answers.
And that's part of the reason.
Once in a while, I do know the answer and expect what I get.
But more often than not, I'm never sure what I'm going to get from it.
Mr. Lamb, because most of us who are in this conference call really don't have a life, we believe that book TV is the center of the universe these days.
uh, how is it being received outside of those of us who spend all weekend watching it?
What are you hearing about book TV?
Uh, by the way, please call me Brian for God's sake.
Um, I, um, you know, I don't, I don't have anything to tell you on that because I tend to have the same experience you do.
When I go to a bookstore on the book tour, you've got people sitting in the audience that are book TV fans.
Um,
Outside of this, you hear industry people, they, of course, like it.
It's a way to showcase their folks.
I think you get a little tired of the publishers thinking that their book on, you know, French cooking would go great on Book TV and they don't pay any attention to what the mission is.
And I'm often bewildered.
how inefficient the publishers are when they will not send us books that we want to cover and they send us books that we don't want to cover.
And how often, and I'm sure you've had the same experience, you've begged them to send you a book that might end up on Book Notes or Book TV and they won't do it and you end up having to go to the store and buy it.
You end up having to call the author directly because they won't get in touch with you.
I mean, they're their own worst enemies.
But, you know, the feedback has been positive.
I don't think people are jumping up and down out there outside of this business of people who read and watch all that.
It tends not to ring a lot of bells out there.
It doesn't have much pizzazz to it.
And you know what television is like.
When wrestling is your number one cable television rated show, you see what we're up against.
Nick here questioned about, I guess there were about 75 subjects in here.
And I think of these 20, I counted about 23 presidents.
That's rather astonishing, isn't it, that you have biographies of 23 American presidents in a space of 10 years?
I agree with that.
You know, we missed one also that we had on board.
It's somebody, all of us missed it in the process, and that was Warren Harding.
which we had in the files.
It was one that done on Robert Farrell, the historian, talked about his whole extra-marital affair with Nan Britton and all that.
But we missed it.
I don't know how we did it.
The book was sitting in the printers when I realized it.
And, you know, every president that we interviewed or about in a biography or autobiography, we put in the book.
We basically have passed half the men in the history that were president.
And there are others that are still coming out on this.
We're learning because we're doing a whole president series right now.
Actually, Nick, I'm not... You can go back.
I think there are 78 people.
There are 78, yeah.
And I count 23 presidents.
I think Susan counts 22, but I haven't spent a lot of time cross-checking.
There are 99...
And if you throw in Loomis, there are a total of 100 different people who have something to say in the book.
But it is amazing that you do get this sweep of American history through these lives, these biographies of the chief executives.
It really is serving a narrative function for me to cover American history.
It's been great for me because a lot of those presidents I didn't know anything about.
An aside on the presidential series that you're doing, is that being well-received?
It's getting a lot of word-of-mouth comment, anecdotal comment on it.
You know, it was not my idea to do it, and it was kind of decided by a committee, and I was for it from the very beginning.
It was my idea to do the Alexis to Tocqueville thing, which people never, ever quite understood.
This one, they understand immediately.
And that's been fun because, you know, the Tocqueville thing, all of us that were involved in it here learned an awful lot about somebody that's always quoted.
And it kind of worked for us.
But the presidential thing, everybody in every kid in school is taught.
who the presidents are, and we are getting good feedback from teachers.
There's not been much coverage on it, to be honest with you.
Most of the national papers haven't paid any attention to it.
It's always surprising.
And it's probably going to end up, and we're not really saying much about this, but after it's all over, we will probably have captured more on videotape
presidential places than has ever been done in one grouping and then shown.
We'll have, if you just take 41 times 2 1⁄2, you've got about 100 hours of first-run stuff on these presidents.
In addition, those are the programs we do every week that are about 2 1⁄2 hours long.
In addition to that, we have all the other lecture series we've been covering and things like that.
So it's going to amount you to a tremendous amount of stuff.
Brian, Bill Eichenberger here at the Columbus Dispatch.
Hi, Bill.
I'm wondering, we're often accused of being a country with no long-term memory at all.
What kind of function do you see of your show serving in terms of restoring a little bit of that long-term memory?
Well, I think it's a quiet, steady place where people can come if they want to get beyond what's going on in the last 12 hours.
And, you know, newspapers do a great job of this every day.
There's always history in newspapers.
Books are fabulous for this.
That's what they're all about.
And I think we tend, for some reason or other, to think that just because commercial...
High visibility television isn't doing it that nobody in the country is paying any attention, and you all know they are.
It's just that the masses aren't, but there are millions of people who are paying attention to history.
And I don't know what the number is, but I know we figure that when all the dust settles that there are probably about 10 percent of the Americans out there of age who watch us on a regular basis, on a day in, day out, check us out, know what we do.
And that's 20, 25 million people in a country of 270 million.
It's a huge audience.
It's bigger than most countries.
And we get frustrated because all other 90% don't get involved or aren't as involved as we are.
So I think that this is the best informed country in the world, or at least there's the best information available to anybody in the world.
And I think ours is just one of many places, but it's steady, not flamboyant, and it plays a role, but, you know, again, it's not everybody's cup of tea.
Right.
You know, oftentimes people, I mean, either cast as people who watch television or who read books, and you're appealing to an audience that probably does both.
You mentioned in your introduction, too, that
With BookTV, you've created another outlet for books.
Do you consider yourself kind of a champion of books, and why do you think they're important?
Well, you know, I'm a, as Nick knows when we talk a lot, I'm a late comer to all this.
I'm not a guy that grew up with a family that read.
My mom and dad didn't go fast to high school, not that that's a big deal.
I mean, a lot of people didn't graduate high school even.
they didn't have books on the shelves in the home, and I was not a reader when I was growing up.
I kind of came to it, well, about 15 to 12, 15 years ago, and it just lit a fire under me.
And I like to tell the story because a lot of people who may not be interested yet have a lot of time left that they can get interested in it.
I don't ever consider myself a crusader.
We do this because it comes naturally to us.
And we're not trying to prove anything.
It's a nice fit for us here.
And one of the things I've learned about television is in a place like this,
In order for us to be relevant, because we do not make money for anybody, and believe me, in this society, if you don't make money for anybody in this business, you're in trouble.
You don't count.
Yeah, I'll testify to that.
Well, you know.
I mean, you know how every book editor of every newspaper has that looking over their shoulder all the time.
We have to be different.
And not just to be different for difference sake, but we have to look for ways to be relevant and different.
And so the book thing so far has been so different.
Nobody else does it.
It just gives us another, I mean, if you think about C-SPAN, it's another thing on the list of things that we do that nobody else does, and we have to keep doing that, or someday somebody might look up and say, well, what are we doing that for?
All the rest of those networks are duplicating what they do.
Two C-SPAN kinds of questions.
Where are you looking for the...
next development of C-SPAN, and secondly, are you still having to fight the battles for inclusion on local systems?
We will be fighting the battle for inclusion on local systems until I die.
Again, it goes back to the money thing.
It's the nature of the beast.
Some of these local cable operators never quite get the message from their corporate leaders, and they mess with us on a local basis.
And, you know, everybody's different.
I've been everything from angry to despondent about this stuff to just realizing what is really going on, and that is that these folks on a local basis are just trying to make it work.
A lot of them don't have the same interests that I do or we do.
But we'll be fighting for our lives forever, although it's not as bad as sometimes it sounds.
We've done pretty well.
Network number one is in about 75 million homes, which is 75% of the homes that have televisions.
And network number two is in about 54, 55 percent, or 55 million homes.
We get hit, though.
We get hurt in communities where they cut C-SPAN-2 back to part-time.
There was just an incident in Ann Arbor, Michigan, where we were cut out on the weekends, so all of book TV is not available on C-SPAN-2.
Do you get those things reversed when they happen?
Yes.
Okay.
Not always, but we've got some, you know, the leadership of this business right now, the new owners of TCI, the AT&T folks, they're all big C-SPAN champions.
The people that run the Cox systems and the people that run Comcast systems, the people that run Time Warner, we are getting very strong support.
And I'm hoping that
We might be able to nail this down in the next five years with this new leadership.
As far as where we're going as a network, we're ready to do more networks just like we've done with C-SPAN 1 and 2, more choice is what it amounts to.
I think it will be a while.
Our fifth network that we had planned to do before all this changed with the must-carry law was to be all international.
I'm still hoping that someday we can have a channel that has all international debates on it.
It's not going to be a barn burner, but you'd be surprised how many people watch our coverage of the British House of Commons.
The biggest new thing on the horizon, besides the Internet, which you all know a lot more about than I do, I'm not a big user, but we are a big developer here.
We have about four websites.
We're into it a big way.
But the big new thing that I think is going to knock everybody's socks off is in the year 2000s.
There are going to be two new companies launch satellites that serve car radios with 100 channels each.
And those 100 channels will be probably 50 music and 50 talk.
And our radio station that we own in Washington will be up there.
You'll be able to hear long-form discussion, a real true 24-hour-a-day public affairs radio station.
All done by private business.
You know, one of the dreams that you had in the early days of public radio, this is going to be, and this is the first time it's ever happened in history here, is this a full-time public affairs radio station.
It's constant.
A lot of the book stuff's on it.
We might down the road develop, and I say might because we're not there yet, a full-time audio book channel that would go out on one of these systems.
So that's going to be exciting.
You've got 200 million cars and trucks that have radios in them around the United States, and they'll be able to do this.
It'll be pay radio.
You'll be able to pay your $10 a month if you want to get this, and you'll be able to drive anywhere in the United States and hear it.
And anybody that's been out on the road, and I spend a lot of time in a car on the road, will know what all this means.
Where do I sign up?
Yeah, that's the way I feel about it.
I can't wait until it happens.
I'm serious.
I've spent so many hours in a car running around this country.
It's dismal out there, you know, when you get beyond, even in a big city, it's dismal.
There's just not much to offer in the way of talk.
To come back to the book for just a minute, are there people that you really would like to have on book notes who have declined you?
Not really.
There have been a couple of occasions where we wanted to do somebody and we couldn't match our times.
No one's ever just flat out said no.
I can't imagine.
As one who has been on, I can't imagine why anyone would decline an opportunity to be on that program.
You never know.
Life's the funny thing.
Brian, do you have a sense of your audience?
Have you done any demographic studies to determine who is watching book notes, particularly I'm thinking of the book programs?
We haven't.
We're about to crank up a new survey, and we hope to know more in the next couple months, but we have not done that up until now.
You know, one of the things that I'm sitting here looking at my notes, and about half of them deal with the printed word and about half of them deal with television.
Are you either knowingly or unknowingly...
dealing with the next generation of the way that we communicate here, that it's a symbiotic relationship between television and the printed word?
Well, it's probably unknowingly doing it.
I am a big, huge fan of the printed word, and I think that this town basically runs on the printed word.
The politicians all run to the cameras, but, you know,
All the people on television get their word from the printed word.
All you have to do is watch any of these nighttime talking shows and you can read the New York Times and the Washington Post and the Wall Street Journal coming right out of their mouths.
They have an enormous amount of power in this town.
The printed word is far more powerful than anybody ever realizes.
Radio is far more powerful than anybody ever realizes.
There is a fascination with television.
But I'm telling you, though, the underbelly of the political system comes more from print and radio than it does from television.
Do you have an idea for a third book in this series, Brian?
I didn't hear the... Do you have an idea for a third book in this series?
Not yet.
We were just talking.
Actually, Susan and I were, and Rob, who are two COOs, about at lunch, and my gut tells me no, that a third book that we put up...
that we probably have done enough of this.
But I know we aren't going to do it as fast as we did this one.
The reason why we wanted to do this one as fast as we did was both a 10th anniversary for the book notes and a 20th anniversary for the network.
And Times Books wanted to do it.
But you know, almost no one that was at Times Books when I started this thing three years ago with them is there now.
So we've got...
That whole thing is moving about as fast as everybody else in all these different communications.
I want to go back to the radio issue for just a minute, because I think there's kind of a general assumption that it's either junk on radio or it's Howard Stern and Don Imus.
What you're telling me is that Washington, official Washington, listens to the radio.
They listen for talk shows.
Well, this is a commuter town.
This is the second longest commute in the United States here.
And there's just a... And by the way, Don Imus is very powerful.
I mean, as a political... And a lot of this town listens to Don.
The political people in this town listen to Don Imus.
He's probably as powerful in this town as anybody is.
You know, he gets a terrific political audience.
I don't think his audience is that big here.
Always the thing that surprises you about Washington is the number of people that listen to talk...
is lower than it is in a lot of other places in the country, and I'm not sure what that's all about.
But I've often found that a lot of people, even who work for the government, don't pay much attention to the politics of the city.
They live a life that's kind of divorceable.
But Imus and the Liddies and the Limbaughes and all those people are listened to here.
Is there the understanding that these people are providing a forum for a small and outspoken and probably lonely minority?
I don't know that it's that.
I think because, you know, Imus talks to... You know, you can break it down.
I mean, you also have National Public Radio, which is listened to.
Okay.
It's not to, you know... It's just that...
Radio is almost never written about.
It's fascinating.
It's just one of those things that comes in under the radar.
And there's a lot of people that listen to radio to get their information.
We found a tremendous feedback from our radio station here.
You can get in your car, say, at the end of your day, and as you're driving home here, and you might have a 45-minute drive, you can listen to the briefing from the White House, the briefing from
Pentagon for the day or a speech that somebody's given, and it's tremendous.
We do something on Sunday afternoon that nobody in the country has ever done, and it's exclusive to, it doesn't have to be, but it turns out to be exclusive to our radio station.
We run two hours every Saturday afternoon from 3 to 5 of the Lyndon Johnson Oval Office telephone conversation.
And we've been doing it since October of 1997.
And you wouldn't believe the word of mouth on the kind of people that are in this town.
It's a tremendous insight into how that whole presidency worked, but also how politics worked.
We have them all on our website.
You can go into our website.
You can find this particular spot.
You can call up any conversation you want.
It's free of charge to you.
We've archived them all and indexed them all, and it's just another little service we do, and it's quiet.
We don't get a lot of copy written on it, and there isn't a lot of copy written on radio, but it's got a lot bigger power base than you would ever imagine politically.
My guess is that most of your viewers do not even realize that there is a C-SPAN radio in the D.C.
area.
Oh, I'd say maybe a half percent would know that.
How long have you been on the radio in D.C.?
October 97.
Okay.
And the hope for the future is the satellite transmission of radio in which we can subscribe to it?
Yes, sir.
There are two companies.
One's called CD Radio and one's called XM Radio, and...
One of them is based here, one of them is based in New York, and they're being financed as we speak.
The technology has been invented.
Our contracts have been signed now for over a year, and we're just waiting for the launch of the satellites next year.
Okay.
Mr. Lamb, Tony Biffle again in Biloxi.
If I could ask two more follow-ups.
The ratio of C-SPAN and C-SPAN-2 viewers seems to be the same two-to-one it's been for a long time.
Is there...
I know you do a lot of promoting for book TV on C-SPAN, and is that having any effect on people calling their systems and trying to get it on and get more access to it?
I'm going to give you a very quick answer to this that's not very scientific in the answer to that, and I wish it were different, is no.
What drives our carriage of C-SPAN 2 is complicated.
And one, we do not make money, remember.
So somebody's got to have a reason for putting it on.
So they've got to be driven by more than just Book TV.
It's got to be a combination of the national company says, this is important to us that you carry C-SPAN II and you have the United States Senate on there and whatever they do.
Two, we have gotten some benefit.
It's hard to put your finger on it, though, from folks around the country who've written about Book TV.
There was an instance in Raleigh, North Carolina, where they tried to take book TV off, and the local book writer got on the warpath and did a bunch of stories on it, and they had some editorials, and they put us back on.
There's anecdotal evidence like that.
But it's a combination.
Also, the expansion of the number of channels they have on the system, it doesn't cost them any more money to put C-SPAN-2 on.
So if they're looking at the dial and they're saying, how do we fill up these 80 channels?
and they don't want to pay 25 cents for the cooking channel or whatever it is, they can put C-SPAN 2 on.
I think they get tremendous value.
It's not costing them another dime.
They have a tremendous opportunity to work with their schools and their libraries and just the local book reading community.
And, of course, it's limited as to how much promotion we can do, but we're trying to help in that regard.
And I think that it will take us some time, but as time goes by, that 48 hours on the weekend will become more and more valuable.
The other question, and this is one because I wanted to write a little bit about this particularly, I can't believe that your publisher particularly would give you any static about color photos, and I particularly can't believe that
Publishers, publicity agents, and the folks who take care of arranging author interviews and mailing out review copies are that dense.
I mean, you're God's gift for publishing in this country, and it would seem like anything they could do.
Well, I would think that, too.
I'm just stunned.
Well, but you've got to know, you know, they tend to think...
Some of them.
Not all of them.
I don't want to make a blanket statement.
Some of them just... We run into this all the time.
If they live in New York, they have no idea who we are.
That's amazing.
I mean, do you know what I mean?
I mean, it says you live in Mississippi, and somebody in New York has no idea who you are.
Mississippi is at the coastline?
My God, who would have thought of it?
At a state?
You know.
And I hate to be crass about it, but that's exactly what goes on.
Then there are others, of course, that won't stop promoting, and we like that.
Call us, tell us who you got, and all that stuff.
So it's a mixed thing.
What was the first part?
He had a two-parter of this.
One was... Well, the two comments you made about publishers.
One, your own publisher.
Oh, well, let me explain that.
The...
When we did our first book, it wasn't the second book.
When we did our first book, the whole idea was that these color photos would be expensive.
Right.
They had no idea whether this thing would sell.
They thought it might.
And that was all that was about.
I didn't resent it.
We just had to push hard on it.
Because as you all know, there are many books that publish color photos.
And boy, if you ever want to walk into a business that doesn't want to change, it's a publishing business.
You all know that.
And what I did in order to make sure that I wasn't completely off base, I went to the printing plants where this book was published.
And this time around, I went to Carvertsville, Indiana, where the
They printed the photos, and I went to Hagerstown, Maryland, where they printed the covers, and then I went to Harrisonburg, Virginia, where they bound it and printed the full book.
And, you know, now I've got a much better sense of what this all costs, so it's a little bit better to understand what's going on.
And, you know, I guess I'd put it this way, it's all affordable.
It's on what?
Affordable.
I mean, you know, it's not like having 32 pages of color photos is breaking their back.
It's not that expensive.
One of the programs that you did from the, I think it was the Los Angeles Book Fair a couple of weeks ago, and one of the people that was interviewed was a fellow who was marketing the electronic book.
and I wasn't sure whether this was kind of a Star Wars character or where this is where we're headed.
What's your feeling, Mr. Lamb?
Well, my reaction to that is purely personal.
I'm the worst in the world.
I like to still read newspapers.
I mean, I have a hard time thinking about carrying around a rocket book or whatever it is.
I don't mean that slamming a brand name.
I don't mean it that way.
I just find it hard.
I like books.
I like the paper.
I like to underline it and write in the margins and all that stuff.
Contrasting what I like, I mean, one of my board members and executive committee members, a guy my age, we were both in the Navy at the same time, and he carries around a little palm deal and, you know, gets out his little pointer and does all that stuff.
I don't even know how he does it.
I'm old-fashioned, and, you know, you have to almost ask the younger people here.
whether or not they like it.
And of course, as you all know, the marketplace will decide this.
I have no idea whether it'll sell or not.
I don't think any of us talk to people who like things like that.
Does anyone here know anyone who's read a complete book from start to finish on a computer screen?
Nope.
No, but I did read an article, an interview with Bill Gates, who said that if there's a document longer than three pages, he makes a print out of it.
Really?
There you go.
Brian, I saw a wonderful quote from you.
I did a LexisNexis search, and there was a piece in the Desiree News out in Utah.
And you were quoted as saying you're 57 years old.
And a couple of things you learned doing these interviews, that both George Washington and Thomas Jefferson were 57 when they were elected president.
And I think my colleagues here would probably love to have you expand on this just a bit.
these interviews and reading these books and talking to these biographers has given you a sense of not only mortality but by going beyond the myth of the individual and identifying with them as people?
Well, that's a great question because I think that's what it all has meant to me is that I'm not the one that invented this whole business.
You read these biographies,
and the autobiography, you start to get a sense of who you are in addition to who these other folks were and you realize that how incredibly immortal everyone is and also how incredibly human everybody was.
I think that the longer we
we get away from when somebody lived, the more methodical or the myths just rise.
You know, George Washington's so mythologized that he doesn't even make sometimes any sense at all when you read about him because, you know, there's a lot about what the myths about him are just totally not true.
He did tell a lie and, you know, the whole cherry tree story wasn't an accurate story.
And I think more than anything else, I've just found when it comes home that John Adams,
had no teeth, and was president and had no false teeth.
And it just changes your whole view of what it must have been like back then.
Not that this matters, but today, of course, he would be a total loser in our society.
He couldn't even exist.
But so much of history brings it down to the basics.
And I just, as some of you know, it's, I think, in the first book, I can't remember where we put it.
I've been to, thanks to Richard Norton Smith, who runs the Ford Library, it was his idea.
I've been to all the grave sites and all the presidents.
You not only learn history, but you do realize that no matter how big you are, how important.